    BUIP007: Lee Adams (redditchampsys) for president
    Proposer: Lee Adams
    Submitted: 2016-01-09
    Status: closed

[About me](https://uk.linkedin.com/in/lee-adams-3b03b29): I'm passionate
about User Experience and Agile development. I got into bitcoin during
the Apr 2013 price spike, because I was fed up with cash and wanted an
alternative. The price rise was serendipitous as I had started to
transfer funds \[to mtGox!!\] before the price really took off. I never
really made any money, because I invested too much during the spike to
1000+. I am a developer (mainly in C\#) and am also a Certified Scrum
Master(c).   
[  
Why I'm
running](https://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/3h9cq4/its_time_for_a_break_about_the_recent_mess/cu5ew1n):
I am floored that such a decentralised idea has become so utterly
centralised in its thought leadership. I am dismayed, but not surprised,
that there is such division in the community and wish to do my best to
mend it. I know that cryptocurrencies will become the next internet/web
(in terms of mass-adoptance).   
  
My side on the block size limit: I do not really have one. I genuinely
can see both sides of the argument. As a hodler I feel betrayed, because
a block size limit was not what I signed up for (I didn't read the small
print, just the FAQ). As a software engineer I can see an enormous risk
in a purposeful hard fork (the only other real one in bitcoin's history
being accidental). As an economist/investor I can see... absolutely
nothing until it has been tested by the market.   
  
Basically I believe that either bitcoin will survive this block limit
debate or another cryptocurrency will replace it as the network effect
leader.   
  
What I would be focussed on as president: I would try to be neutral in
all things. I think my reddit profile suggests, that I detest censorship
of ideas, but I am not committed to any particular side (which is what I
really like about BU). I believe that any organisation MUST be run by
its members and that members MUST have the final say in any decision. I
understand that any member has every right to be anonymous, but that the
organisation must (small caps) protect itself against [electoral
fraud. ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electoral_fraud)This is a VERY
difficult balance. My ideas on how to do this can be expressed by the
constitution I put together for a failed [non-profit bitcoin
organisation in the
UK](http://www.iamsatoshi.com/bitcoin-association-great-britain/). I
would put together a membership committee (with public meetings) or open
forum that vetted membership, to which any decision could be appealed to
a [majority vote of the existing
membership](http://www.robertsrules.com/faq.html).   
  
Finally I understand that the President has virtually no powers
whatsoever, no remuneration and very little station. It would also
require a lot of time and effort. You would have to be mad to apply.   
  
--  
Lee Adams  
[1ruQ2wceuMt83aXQsERyWGxQawHqXERSd](https://blockchain.info/address/1ruQ2wceuMt83aXQsERyWGxQawHqXERSd)
