    BUIP009: User-configurable public-key cryptography (let users choose from predefined cryptosystems)
    Proposer: Simon Liu
    Submitted: 2016-01-09
    Status: draft
    Revision: 1

**Summary**  
  
Add configuration option so users can choose a public-key cryptography
system to use for key generation and transaction validation. This will
enable the community to better safeguard their Bitcoins by being both
prepared for and able to react swiftly to advances in cryptography and
cryptanalysis.  
  
**Background**  
  
Bitcoin uses elliptic curve cryptography (ECC) to sign transactions so
that network participants can verify funds are being spent by their
rightful owners.  
  
Specifically, Bitcoin uses the Elliptic Curve Digital Signature
Algorithm (ECDSA) with secp256k1 parameters (also known as a Koblitz
curve), to generate a public/private key pair.  
  
In 2011, Bitcoin developers questioned \[1\] the use of secp256k1
instead of a more widely-used curve such as secp256r1.

-   "The specific curve used is pretty unusual... I'm not losing much
    sleep over the theoretical possibility of an attack on secp256k1,
    but it is likely to be less widely implemented." -- Hal Finney
-   "I discussed this with Satoshi. There is no particular reason why
    secp256k1 is used. It just happened to be around at the time." --
    Mike Hearn
-   "One plausible option for a future bitcoin-like system is to allow a
    selection from a numbered range of pre-selected curves." -- ByteCoin

Today, Ethereum and Ripple also use ECDSA with secp256k1 but both are
planning to add support for and even transition to another ECC based
system, Ed25519 \[2\].

-   "It is becoming increasingly understood that the specific kind of
    signature used by Bitcoin is far from optimal; ed25519 is
    increasingly recognized as a superior alternative particularly
    because of its simpler implementation, greater hardness against
    side-channel attacks and faster verification." -- Vitalik Buterin
    \[3\]
-   "Ed25519 addresses many of the ongoing security concerns surrounding
    commonly used cryptosystems… and avoids several design constraints
    inherent to secp256k1 ECDSA." -- Ripple \[4\]

Ed25519 makes use of Curve25519 which is widely deployed\[5\] and
considered "safe" whereas secp256k1 is "unsafe"\[6\] due to an increased
risk of error during implementation.  
  
However, in August 2015, the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA)
released a policy statement \[7\] advising against investing resources
into ECC but instead prepare for a transition to quantum resistant
algorithms. This has resulted in much debate and speculation amongst
cryptographers \[8\]\[9\].  
  
Given the above, this BUIP recommends taking pragmatic and pro-active
steps to safeguard users by adding flexibility and agility into the key
generation and transaction validation processes.  
  
**High Level Design **  
  
Add a configuration option so users can choose a cryptosystem and when
it starts and expires. The default will be to use Bitcoin's current
system, ECDSA with secp256k1. For example, the following configuration
would start generating keys with Ed25519 from block 500,000 with miners
and other validators accepting keys from the old key system for another
100,000 blocks:

Default,0-600000  
Ed25519,500000​

A different address prefix (version byte) could be used for keys created
with different cryptosystems. This would result in addresses beginning
with a leading symbol different from regular Bitcoin addresses which
begin with 1, making them easily identifiable for humans. This would
enable multiple cryptosystems to be used at the same time, rather than
merely transition from one to another. If the Bitcoin community adopted
this model, it would then be possible to transfer funds associated with
a secp384r1 key to a Ed25519 key. Configuration might look like this:

Default,0  
Ed25519,500000  
Secp384r1,500000​

Today, OP\_CHECKSIG only verifies ECDSA secp256k1 signatures. In future,
it could verify different signature algorithms based upon the address
prefix or an over-riding configuration option. It would also be possible
to create new OP\_CHECKSIG commands for different algorithms, but this
would be at the expense of using up opcodes.  
  
This BUIP recommends adding support for a new cryptosystem and leaving
it disabled by default. For example, Ed25519 would keep Bitcoin on par
with its cryptocurrency peers and establish a process for adding and
testing new algorithms. The choice of cryptosystem should be based upon
input from the cryptographic community, taking into account the
characteristics of potential candidates which are best suited for
Bitcoin e.g. speed, signature size, available (patent-free)
implementations.  
  
With a second cryptosystem already deployed, in the event of a
vulnerability with secp256k1, miners and users could easily and rapidly
switch over with a simple change to the configuration of their node or
wallet. If the community had in fact adopted usage of multiple
cryptosystems, a vulnerability discovered in one algorithm would not
necessarily affect all Bitcoin users, as it would today.  
  
**Links of interest:**  
  
FourQ elliptic curve "FourQ is around four to five times faster than the
original NIST P-256 curve and between two and three times faster than
curves that are currently under consideration as NIST alternatives, such
as Curve25519"  
<http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/projects/fourqlib/>  
  
“A Riddle Wrapped in an Enigma” by Neal Koblitz and Alfred J. Menezes  
<https://eprint.iacr.org/2015/1018.pdf>  
  
**References:**  
  
\[1\] https://bitcointalk.org/?topic=2699.0  
  
\[2\] http://ed25519.cr.yp.to/  
  
\[3\] https://blog.ethereum.org/2015/07/05/on-abstraction/  
  
\[4\] https://ripple.com/dev-blog/curves-with-a-twist/  
  
\[5\] http://ianix.com/pub/curve25519-deployment.html  
  
\[6\] http://safecurves.cr.yp.to/  
  
\[7\] https://www.nsa.gov/ia/programs/suiteb\_cryptography/  
  
\[8\] https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2015/08/nsa\_plans\_for\_a.html  
  
\[9\] http://blog.cryptographyengineering.com/2015/10/a-riddle-wrapped-in-curve.html
