    BUIP053: Tweakable client DoS responses
    Proposer: freetrader
    Submitted on: 2017-05-01
    Status: draft

Summary
-------

In recent followup work on the denial-of-service (DoS) responses of the
client, there have been calls for a clear policy in terms of treatment
of misbehaving peers.

Instead of a rigid "design guideline" based approach, which still
hardcodes certain responses, it is proposed to move client DoS response
firmly into the "user policy" arena by making the design guideline
simply state "punishments for misbehaving peers should always be
configurable by the user".

Motivation
----------

The Bitcoin system's network environment is complex and always changing
in unpredictable ways.

Currently, the BU software contains some hardcoded responses of the type
"if a peer exhibits behavior A, ban the peer" or "if a peer exhibits
behavior B, increase the peer's denial-of-service score by so-and-so
much". Once a client's DoS score reaches a certain level (100), the
client is banned for a default period of 24 hrs. In some cases, the
client's network response may also be to straightaway disconnect the
peer.

Hardcoded responses are inconvenient, as they make it necessary to
deliver client updates (new releases) which could be avoided by issuing
advisories to users to adjust configuration settings.

They also prevent users from easily defending their own BU nodes, which
may be subject to focused attacks.

As an example, we have had reports (unverified) that a mining pool was
being attacked in a specific way. Having tunable settings could give
advanced users immediate remedy against such attacks, and be able to
share effective measures with others.

Configurable options allow the 'emergent consensus' / swarm intelligence
to develop better and faster responses for the defense of the node
network than can be done by a small group of developers.

Implementation considerations
-----------------------------

It is proposed to convert all responses into Misbehaving() calls, with
the strength of the response (the amount which to increase the client's
DoS score) to be made into a specific "tweak" (a configurable parameter
which can be set in the configuration files, but also changed at
runtime).

The value should range from 0 (do nothing) to whatever is necessary to
get the peer banned immediately (currently 100 should achieve that).

The built-in default values of these new "response" tweaks should be set
to emulate current behavior as closely as possible.

A default parameter file extract should be delivered as an example with
the client, describing the response parameters (exactly to which
defensive situation they apply). This will allow advanced users to
easily include whichever of these in their own configurations, and adapt
them as they need.

The parameters would be changeable at runtime through RPC calls (this is
an existing mechanism applying to all tweakable parameters).

The GUI client should get a separate window tab for tweaking these DoS
response levels. A slider bar is envisioned for each response parameter,
preset to its configured value.

Further discussion
------------------

The author would welcome discussion of all aspects of this proposal, as
it is currently only at the "concept" stage - although technically it
does not require much beyond what is already available as features in
the software.
