    BUIP056: Increase the Block Size Limit at a Support Threshold
    Proposer: Tomas van der Wansem
    Sponsor: Zangelbert Bingledack
    Submitted on: 2017-05-12
    Status: draft

Abstract
--------

This proposal allows nodes to be configured to change their block size
limit when a support threshold is reached.

Motivation
----------

As outlined in the motivation for [BUIP055](055.mediawiki "wikilink"),
the EB/AD configuration currently lacks a mechanism for miners to
coordinate changes to the *max\_block\_size*.

BUIP055 solves this by allowing miners to preannounce a change to their
*max\_block\_size* at a certain height. A drawback of that approach is
that miners cannot predict whether there is enough support among miners
for the change at the specified height.

This BUIP offers a way to change the *max\_block\_size* setting based on
support for the new value among miners. By choosing a support threshold
percentage, they can trigger a change of the block size limit guarded by
what is for them the most relevant parameter for allowing the change.

Specification
-------------

### *max\_block\_size* calculation

To determine the *max\_block\_size* used to verify a target block, a
node will use the variables:

  
  
*current\_limit* is the current size limit.

<!-- -->

  
  
*new\_limit* is the new size limit that will be activated when the
threshold is reached.

<!-- -->

  
  
*threshold* is the minimum percentage of supporting blocks in a
difficulty period to trigger activation.

*new\_limit* must be larger then *current\_limit* and *threshold* must
be a multiple of 5 between 50 and 100 inclusive.

For our calculation, we define a block set as a set of blocks in a
single difficulty period at least 5 difficulty periods in the past; that
is, a set of blocks before the target block with heights between **y \*
2016** and **(y \* 2016) + 2015** inclusive, for any non-negative
integer **y** such that the height of the target block is larger than
**(y \* 2016) + 2015 + 10080**.

Given a target block, let X,N be a number pair with the following
conditions:

-   2016 &gt;= N &gt;= *threshold*
-   *current\_limit* &lt; X &lt;= *new\_limit*
-   There exists a block set, in which at least N% of the blocks signal
    a *new\_limit* equal to or larger than X and a *threshold* equal to
    or smaller than N. The percentage calculated should not be rounded.

If no number pair X,N exists, *current\_limit* is used as
*max\_block\_size* for the target block. Otherwise the highest value of
X from all X,N pairs is used as the *max\_block\_size* for the target
block.

If max\_block\_size&gt;1,000,000 is used for the target block and
max\_block\_size&gt;1,000,000 is not used for any ancestor of the target
block and the size of the block is less then or equal to 1,000,000 then
the block must be rejected.

### Signature operations and transaction size

The maximum signature operations and transaction size are consistent
with [BUIP040](040.mediawiki "wikilink") and BIP100:

`       max_block_sigops = 20000*((max_block_size-1)/1000000 + 1)`

`       max_tx_size = 1000000`

### Coinbase and user-agent signalling

Building on the format specified in BUIP005, the relevant variables are
signalled in the coinbase transaction as

`       "/EB`<current_limit_MB>`/FE`<new_limit_MB>`@`<threshold>`%/..."`

and in the user-agent string as

`       "`<user-agent>`(EB`<current_limit_MB>`;FE`<new_limit_MB>`@`<threshold>`%...)/"`

The variables are related as:

`       current_limit = current_limit_MB * 1,000,000`

`       new_limit = new_limit_MB * 1,000,000`

Rationale
---------

-   Only block sets at least 10080 blocks deep are considered to allow
    for an activation period in which more mining power can join.

<!-- -->

-   The block set is aligned with the difficulty period to minimize the
    risk of a chain split. Miners are strongly disincentives to stay on
    the minority as it will take at least \~8 weeks before difficulty
    adjustment with a 75% threshold.

<!-- -->

-   The first time this mechanism is used, the chain is protected from a
    reorg to the chain with only small blocks.

### Alternatives

-   BUIP055 provides a coordinated \`\`max\_block\_size\`\` upgrade
    using a target height. A drawback of this approach is that miners
    cannot predict future support. A fixed hight may result in
    retracting or postponing target heights due to insufficient support
    which can damage reputations and cause a loss of momentum.

<!-- -->

-   BIP135 Version bit signaling can also be used to schedule based on
    threshold. However version bit proposals cannot individually
    encompass a minimum threshold or a maximum blocksize. This could be
    solved by using multiple proposals, but voting on multiple
    conflicting proposals in parallel can lead to various problems.
